{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw16840\paperh23820\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25800\viewh19080\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13330 \cf0 ;These are the eight blocks of TyranoScript-component code found in the tutorial game Taking Back August, Part II\
\
;This is \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a didactic game by Robert Ciesla to demonstrate the basic mechanics of the TyranoBuilder software\
;From "Game Development with Ren'Py: Introduction to Visual Novel Games Using Ren'Py, TyranoBuilder, and Twine"\
;Published by Apress in 2019\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
;
\f1\b TyranoScript BLOCK ONE
\f0\b0 \
; \
\
[filter layer="base" blur=8]\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ;
\f1\b TyranoScript BLOCK TWO\

\f0\b0 ; \
\
[filter layer="base" blur=0]\
\
;
\f1\b TyranoScript BLOCK THREE\

\f0\b0 ;\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ;Set your intoxication level to zero using a custom variable "f.rumlevel"\
[eval exp="f.rumlevel = 0"]\
;The [r] tag inserts a new line\
The way she appeared out of nowhere makes her suspect. You confirm this is the correct train and push past her. [r]\
;The [l] tag makes the game wait for a mouse click, while the [cm] tag clears all text.\
You find your seat and soon the train starts its trek. [l][cm]\
;Start playback of a looped ambient track\
[fadeinbgm storage=train_01.wav loop=true time=3000]\
;Display a new background image\
[bg storage=train1.jpg time=6000 wait=true]\
Claire dons a pair of headphones and closes her eyes.[r]\
You're pleased there's no more small talk to interrupt your flow of thoughts.[l][cm]\
;Let's play a little (unskippable) movie\
[movie storage=interlude.webm skip=false]\
;Let's then implement some interaction, shall we?\
Pulling out her headphones, Claire suddenly offers a drink from a hip flask.[l]\
[dialog type="confirm" text="Drink?" label_ok="Yes, please." storage="scene1.ks" target="yes_label" label_cancel="No,thanks.." storage_cancel="scene1.ks" target_cancel="no_label"]\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ;
\f1\b TyranoScript BLOCK FOUR
\f0\b0 \
; \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
[cm]You decline. "Suit yourself", Claire says taking a long sip from her flask.[l]\
;Jump over the yes_label choice\
[jump storage=scene1.ks target=*continue]\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ;
\f1\b TyranoScript BLOCK FIVE\

\f0\b0 ; \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
[playse storage=gulp.wav loop=false ]\
;Add your intoxication-level by one\
[eval exp="f.rumlevel = f.rumlevel +1"]\
[cm]You agree. "Here you go..", Claire says offering you the flask. It's some type of rum.[l]\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ;
\f1\b TyranoScript BLOCK SIX
\f0\b0 \
; \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
[cm]Passing rows of drowsy commuters, a bald man in blue farmer's overalls approaches you and Claire.[l][r]\
He seems out of place and somewhat strange in his mannerisms.[p]\
He triggers something in you. You instinctively move towards the corridor.[r]Claire glances over and nods at the strange man.[p]\
;The plot thickens\
You begin pacing down the train corridor to the opposite direction. The bald man follows.[l][r]You're being chased.[l][cm]\
[bg storage=train3.jpg time=3000 wait=false]You find your way into a toilet and lock the door. [playse storage=knock.ogg loop=false ]Loud knocks sound off in your eardrums. You're trapped.[l][cm]\
;Evaluate and display variable\
[if exp="f.rumlevel==1"] You feel a little tipsy..Your rum-level is [emb exp=f.rumlevel].\
[endif]\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ;
\f1\b TyranoScript BLOCK SEVEN\

\f0\b0 ; \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
;Play some audio and display one of three random lines of narration\
[playse storage=phone.wav loop=true ]\
[cm][eval exp="f.random_number = Math.floor((Math.random() * 3) + 1)"]\
[if exp="f.random_number==1"]Your ancient telephone rings. [endif]\
[if exp="f.random_number==2"]The nearly fossilized mobile phone is ringing. [endif]\
[if exp="f.random_number==3"]The relic of a telephone drowns out all other noises. [endif]\
[p]\
;Display Raine and stop the phone from ringing\
[chara_config ptext=true]\
[chara_show name="Raine" wait=true top=40 left=50]\
[stopse]\
"You're on your way. Good. Are they after you?"[p]\
"Just wait. Stay put. They're not authorized to use full force."[p]\
[anim name="Raine" time=2000 left=800 top=40]\
"I need you to leave the train at the next stop. Do you hear me?" The woman hangs up.\
[filter name="Raine" blur=20][chara_hide name="Raine" time=1000 wait=true]\
[p]\
Puzzled, you do what you're told. [playse storage=knock.ogg][quake count=3 time=300 hmax=10]\
The knocking continues for another five minutes or so then abruptly stops.\
[playse storage=knock.ogg volume=30][p]\
[bg storage=train2.jpg time=3000 wait=true]\
You open the toilet door warily; There's no one behind it. Claire is gone as is the bald man.[p]\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ;
\f1\b TyranoScript BLOCK EIGHT\

\f0\b0 ; \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
You hear an announcement: next stop <b><i>Bedford!</i></b>[p]\
;Change backdrop\
[bg storage="platform1.jpg"]\
\
@camera zoom=2 from_zoom=1 x=180 y=100 time=2000\
;Reset Camera position.\
@reset_camera\
\
;Fade out the train ambience\
[fadeoutbgm time=3000]\
As soon as the train stops, you're out on the streets, looking over your shoulder. No one seems to be following you.[p]\
[eval exp="f.rumlevel = 0"]\
[if exp="f.rumlevel==1"]  [jump target=*still_tipsy]\
[else] [jump target=*full_of_energy][endif]\
\
;Add a label\
*still_tipsy\
You are somewhat drowsy. But you must go on.[p] [jump target=*resume_story]\
\
;Add a second label\
*full_of_energy\
You feel adrenaline surging in your veins.[p]\
\
*resume_story\
Only a mere minute into the crowds, you're grabbed by the arm![p]\
;Define two macros\
[macro name="redtag"][font color=0xff0000][endmacro]\
[macro name="yellowtag"][font color=0xffff00][endmacro]\
[redtag]"I think we should find a quieter venue to talk", a vaguely familiar voice tells you. It's <b>Royston Honeybun</b> from tech support.[p]\
[bg storage="park.jpg"][chara_config name="Royston" ptext="chara_name_area"]\
[chara_show name="Royston" wait=true top=40 left=50]\
[yellowtag]"I sent you the email in your friend's name. Sorry about that."[p]\
[chara_mod name="Royston" storage="chara/6/Roy2.png" time=0][resetfont]\
"I had to get you out of there", he says.[p]\
\
;Add some inline images\
[macro name="phone"][graph storage="Cellphone.png"][endmacro]\
[chara_mod name="Royston" storage="chara/6/Roy.png" time=0]\
The upcoming government firewall, August, is designed to be perfect. Turn out you made it too perfect.[p]\
A faction of the government needs backdoors in it, vulnerabilities which can be utilized at their will, Mervyn explains.[p]\
You're told to wait for a call. [phone] It'll be Raine, you spoke with her on the train.[p]\
[chara_hide name="Royston" time=2000 wait=true]\
;Add graphical buttons\
*cool_buttons\
[glink target="ponder" text="Ponder" size=20 width="300" y=250 color=rosy font_color=0x000000]\
[glink target="try" text="Relax" size=20 width="300" y=300 color=blue]\
[glink target="resume_adventure" text="Onwards!" size=20 width="300" y=350 color=gray]\
[s]\
*ponder\
You stay behind on the park bench, digesting everything you were just told. [p][jump target=*resume_adventure]\
*try\
You do your best to not ponder recent events, but you fail.[p]\
*resume_adventure\
What's this? Oh, you've reached the end of this tutorial game. See the project files for the source code.[p]\
[position opacity=0][quake count=3 time=200 hmax=20]\
\
;Invoke Nasuka, the default Live2D-character\
[live2d_new name="Nasuka"] [live2d_show name="Nasuka"]\
[live2d_trans name="Nasuka" time=2000 left=200 top=-200]\
[live2d_motion name="Nasuka" filenm="pleased.mtn" idle="ON" ]\
[wait time="2000"]\
[live2d_motion name="Nasuka" filenm="idle.mtn" idle="ON" ]\
[mtext text="Cheerio!" layer=2 size=48 x=680 y=160 in_effect="bounceIn" out_effect="hinge"]\
[live2d_scale name="Nasuka" scaleX=4.8 scaleY=4.8 time=3000]\
[live2d_opacity name="Nasuka" opacity=0 time=4000]\
[wait time="3000"] [close ask=false]}